---
layout: post
title:  "The week that was - Thursday"
excerpt: "A nice post"
date:   2016-06-26 
mathjax: true
---

Thursday was the second day of the conference. I woke up at 7 and had some granola bars for breakfast and went to MIT just in time for the first talk. Tim Holy a professor in Washington university was speaking about the state of arrays and his experience in working with sparse data. It was a brilliant talk. Tim Holy has contribute to almost every julia package. His lab does research with biology and medicine but they use julia a lot. He was followed by the Julia Founder Stefan Karpinski who spoke about the release of Julia 1.0 in future and what all needs to be done before that. He surveyed over many different issues and solutions and also touched on which of the work needs to be prioritized for now. 

After the morning break I went to the hackerspace to get some work done. They had booked a classroom opposite the lecture halls where the talks went on for ppl who wanted to work. Many ppl would come in and go and would be working on their own projects and discussing and bouncing off ideas. Great atmosphere to get work done. 
I was also very tired of so many talks and also felt like just coding in the hackerspace so I spent most of the day working and occasionally went for a couple of talks. In the hackerspace I had some discussion with Ayush about Convexjl, didnt like him one bit. 

For lunch, a couple of us headed out to food-trucks (they are common and often have very tasty food) right near the MIT station. I went to the vegetarian one had an amazing sandwich (their idea of sandwich is a somwhere between a sub and a burger) of strawberry and brocolli. The strawberry sauce and the brocolli and patties together was insane! The group consisted of me, amit, anchit, rohit, abhijeet, zainab bawa (she owns the company hasgeek which hosts tech conferences in India) and ranjan. I spoke to ranjan about BITS and asked him about Julia Computing and how he got into the parallel stuff etc. It was a good discussion. 

After lunch I attended two talks and then during the tea breaks (yeah there was a tea break at 3:20 where they served some sort of cookies and cake and coffe), I had the cookie and cake. I caught hold of Tony Kelman and spoke to him about my project as I was redirected to him when I asked Viral about sparse data structures. I had a good 30 minute discussion with Tony when Miles just came along and then I spoke to Miles for about one hour. 

Interacting with Miles was one of my goals for the conference as I needed to get more close to these ppl. The obvious reason being they are all really good at what they do and they do optimization. Also, I wanted to do as much as possible under Julia-Opt, and all the hours I spent researching,googling and looking up stuff meant I had a pretty good idea of what all was going on with Miles and the Julia-Opt community. I spoke to him first about my project, then someone came and announced that the talks were going to start and he himself asked me if I wanted to hang back and just chat, which is exactly what I wanted to do. We spoke about JuMP, what he and Iain had built, about Pasajero (his latest package that was very close to his research/thesis) , I asked him how much of this he uses in his thesis, what is the research point of view etc. We spoke about PhD and how it was like in MIT for optimization, his PhD advisors, other PhD advisors in general. I also asked him about this other work - SCIP - an initiative for integer optimization. 

So ZIB in Germany is one of the places with heavy optimization research work and dedicated groups. SCIP is developed by them. One of the ideas for gsoc this year was building a wrapper for the SCIP package which is written in C. Wrapper for a C package means you can access it from julia without having to use C. Writing or helping write the SCIP wrapper would put me in close contact and exposure to the ZIB ppl which could help me know more about what they do. 

I asked Miles if anyone is currently working on the SCIP wrapper and he said no one submitted a proposal for that (which I knew) so he has himself been working with the group over at ZIB on it. He mentioned that he had infact just got visited berlin two weeks back for collaborating on this. I think I surprised him by asking a lot of knowledgeable questions. As soon as the conversation was over, he mailed me links to their work currently on the wrapper. I need to contribute to this. The person on ZIB who is working with Miles is doing a PhD under the Prof there who came up with SCIP. 
I also spoke to Katharine Hyatt, she was a physics PhD student in UCSB who is very popular in the Julia community.
 
In the evening, we just roamed around for a bit around the campus, and then visited Harvard Square. Walked through the roads and saw a bit of the campus before we headed back to our places. I came back to my room and by that time had a lot of messages from ppl wishing me for my birthday. I decided I should do sthng for it. On my way to my room I stepped into the nearby AT&T store nearby and enquired the guy there about iphones and comparison with samsung phones etc. The IPhone 6 SE seems to have most of the features as the other iphones but is about 300 dollars lesser and all the really good android phones are about the same price or more and on cross checking with its cost in India it was about 8-9k lesser in the US. So I decided to go ahead and buy it. I had been flirting with the idea since I came to US on Saturday. I hopped on the train, got off at MIT and walked to the apple store (by using screenshots of the map, no data). I went into best buys and they said they would match the price (for some reason best buy quotes 100 dollars more by default), they said there is no diff but best buy always jacks up some of hte prices and will price-match to whatever is there on the market if the customer knows it too. Which is a little evil. 

After quite a bit of walking around, I finally found the apple store inside the Cambridge Mall (which has a pretty nice view from its entrance), went in, enquired more in the apple store, bought the phone. It costed 400 dollars (currently paid for within the 550 dollars I had at the start of the week). After that I strolled into the Mall's food court and went to Chipotle (a popular chain with mexican food), had a burrito. Which was quite filling. And then made the walk back towards the MIT Kendal station. Ofcourse I took a few wrong turns and ended up walking around a mile or two extra but I walked along the Charles river <insert image> and that was quite nice. I stopped by the MIT dome and tried to take a pic, <insert image> this was the attempt. Not a lot of lighting

Made the trip back to room finally and then just about collapsed again. I still hadnt made the changes to the slides that M wanted and the code wasnt functional yet for a demo. But too tired and also I had a hunch that there might not be enough time to demo the code during the talk plus also, I was sort of scared of showing off live code in front of such good programmers. Anyway while I was thinking all this, somewhere in the middle I started sleeping. Day ends. 




