---
layout: post
title:  "The week that was - Monday"
excerpt: "A nice post"
date:   2016-06-26 
mathjax: true
---

Got up early morning at 5 am as I had slept the previous night at 9. 
Also, I hadn't made a draft of my slides yet and Madeleine mailed me saying JuliaCon is coming quick and I need to make a draft of slides so that we both can go through it together. 

Personally, If I have put in the effort then giving a talk - no problem. Have done it before on campus with confidence and I know what to talk and how and always want to do it extemporae or on the spot. Infact, timing it/running through the talk in advance etc makes me uncomfortable. Making Slides again no issue. I knew what I wanted to make and how I wanted it to look and the sequence in which things had to go. So I guess, the biggest concern was what sort of suggestions she might have and how she would want to change it. But all power to her and I respect her opinion very much so I can't complain. 

Before I could make the slides, I needed to code some more. Some features still had to be implemented so that I can show them in the talk. The sunday was lost in the mess that happened. So I was behind schedule with the code. 

Raju  Mama (to henceforth be called just R) wanted to do yet another micro level planning on what my daily commute would look like. He wanted to take the train to MIT in the morning to see how the morning trip looks like and what the breakfast options are there at the Porter Square and also at the MIt square and probably scout all the options near MIT that would be open before 9. Which was just unnecessary and takes away all the fun of exploring. So I anyway did NOT want to do that. 

I told him I have to work(which was anyway true) and hence that we have to skip the mornign plans and that I would have to start doing my work asap. So I just met him for breakfast at Panera Bread and then he left after that. We had bagels and coffee for breakfast. 

I worked through most of the day. On and off. Around 2pm I went out to get lunch. First day of the week and I was too busy to look up stuff so played it safe and went to the Indian place nearby. Passage to India. Had biriyani and vegetable pakora, both were yummy but the quantity was so much I had it for dinner and post dinner too. 

I came back and gave a short reply to Madeleine (here after to be referred to as M) saying I needed to still make the slides and that we should meet (google hangout) on Tuesday. She replied soon (as always) asking me if Tuesday morning is ok. I was too tired to immediately reply. I wanted to see a EUROS football match which was on at 4 but after the lunch I just slept hard and woke up only at 10 or so. Coding was still lagging behind and I was very tired and just wanted to sleep. Had dinner and wasted an hour or two. I thought I will sleep and wake up early tomorrow and do the slides work. 

I still hadnt replied to Madeleine's email but. I have a bad habit of not replying unless I have the energy to focus on it to fullest extent. I keep working and thinking in a series of bursts (in different activities) and sometimes the interval between two relevant bursts of thought allocation - for eg: Keep friends and family updated - is way too long. Leading to frustration. The issue is a little deep with some abstract psychological behaviour and thoughts but I can try and do stuff like what I am doing right now to proxy for that absence emotionally and physically. (If that even works)

So Madeleine's mail. I replied. She wanted me to talk to her on either Monday evening or Tuesday morning when I was free. I ofcourse replied monday night only so I informed here that the conference starts Tuesday morning at 8 and hence I couldnt talk to her Tuesday morning. I suggested Tuesday evening 7pm (my time, she lives in California like banu). She replied quickly saying ok. 

M was going off for vacation till next Monday and in that time she said she would be unavailable for any query. She is joining Cornell as prof from July 1, so I assume this was a short vacation before moving to Ithaca,NY and setting up her base there. 

Two issues. The conference on Tuesday whole day meant I had no time to work on the talk during the day. Her going away on vacation meant I absolutely had to get it done by Tuesday evening. 

So. I just ended up working through the night. From like 2am till 8:30 am. In the middle I went to Dunkin Donuts (which opens at 5am!) to have coffee. Over the week I have got used to American Coffee. It can actually be handy in cases when you want strong coffee. As you can just add a LOT of decoction into a medium theatre sized cup with a little bit of milk. Also, the coffee here isnt frothy (like filter is) and mostly not really hot. (It cools down very quickly even if you take it hot) , so if you get used to have the same coffee cold then you can just walk all over and do whatever and keep feeding yourself caffeine. 








