---
layout: post
title:  "The week that was - Wednesday"
excerpt: "A nice post"
date:   2016-06-26 
mathjax: true
---

Wednesday marked the official start of the conference talks. Most of the crowd were there from Wednesday as they were looking to present their work rather than get introduced to julia features discussed in the workshops. 

I went to Panera Bread for breakfast and had a cinnamon crunch bagel and hazelnut flavoured coffee, both were very yummy. Off to MIT through the Red-line. 

My everyday commute was through the MBTA - Mass Boston Transport Authority (I think..) system. I had a "charlie card" for the 7-day pass which costed 19 dollars. The pass meant I could literally go anywhere , any number of time around the city using the trains and the bus lines associated with MBTA by just tapping (yeah the system here required to tap the card rather than swipe) the card everywhere. Very convenient. Ofcourse R had already made a few trips up and down to scout the possibilities and bought the card for me, which was helpful but I didnt really need it, as the next logical step after deciding that I was going to take the Red-Line (which I decided before even booking the room) was to research on the ticket prices and passes etc. The other gsoc students had a pass too, which also shows its not that big a deal and I could have just as well figured it out myself. 

Anyway, the Red-line <insert image> , takes me from Porter square (where I lived) to Kendall/MIT (where I needed to go) through Harvard and Central Square. The Porter Sq station was about 200 yards from where I lived and the stata center was about the same distance from the MIT station. So it all worked out sweet. Stata center btw is a pretty crazy building. <insert image>. It even has a controversial history behind it involving MIT suing the Architectural Firm that built it over structural deficiences and illegal compromises. The Stata center also housed the CSAIL lab, which I unforuntately somehow never got the time to visit. 

Everyday morning outside the conference hall they had a light breakfast buffet with coffee and some nut+flavoured-yoghurt. The coffee was recycled and made available throughout the day which was nice as I made several trips to down cups of coffee. The talks for the day started with one of the 3 keynote speakers - Guy Steele, who spoke about a language his team had developed last decade - Fortress. Their funding was cut-off and the project was abandoned after that but he took us through what their design goals were and how they tried to implement and what the challenges involved were. Ideas like functional programming, mathematical readability , type system, parameterizing types, object overloading, function dispatch etc were dicussed. Type inference and stability seems to be a key component of any language as if the compiler isnt able to infer the type then it is going to allocate more space - an idea called boxing and unboxing of memory - and do more calculations and possibly even do exhaustive search of all possibilities to match a function or variable. This could result in a lot of time wasted and significantly slow down the process. Thus, writing type-stable code is key to achieving performance. 

After Guy Steele, Keno Fischer spoke about a debugger he was building for Julia - Gallium. He was a lot younger than he looks and is apparently just 23 but is pursuing a PhD in chemistry in Harvard apaprently. He has been working and contributing to Julia since his school days! A debugger is important for developers and he had some cool demos. I introduced myself to Miles Lubin in the morning break at 10:15. 

My GSOC project is under Julia-Opt, The sub-community in Julia which handles optimization packages. Julia-Opt mainly consists of only three members driving all the work - Iain Dunning (a PhD student from NewZealand at MIT under the famous prof Bertsimas), Miles Lubin (also PhD student at MIT under prof Juan Pablo Vielma) and my mentor M. Iain Dunning and M couldnt make it to the conference , so Miles was the only one from Julia-Opt. I spoke briefly to him and he told me that he unfortunately wont be there for my talk as he is flying to brazil that day. Under Julia-opt there are two modelling pacakges - JuMP and Convex. JuMP is handled by Iain and Miles. <insert image>

I dont remember all the talks in much detail, I went to a few, skipped a few to work on my project. I had lunch at the Forbes cafe in a - pick anything you want and pay by weight salad - <insert image>. After the lunch session, I went for the talk by Miles Lubin. It was interesting. 

At 5pm, I left with Rohit, Amit, Abhijeet and Anchit for dinner. Dinner is had early in US and we were hungry too. We went to this famous place called Emma's which had Italian food. Very good pizzas but very heavy too. After that we walked around for a bit around the place and then left for each other's rooms. It darkens only at 8:30 or so and that is very deceiving at first as you look outside and think its not 6 yet (like in Chennai) and suddenly realise its actually 8. I came back to room, did a little bit of coding and then again crashed and slept.  
