---
layout: post
title:  "The week that was - Saturday"
excerpt: "A nice post"
date:   2016-06-26 
mathjax: true
---

Saturday. I woke up at 6 and realised I had to majorly clean the room and I also needed to vacate the room before the checkout time which was 11am. Also there was a hackathon going on in MIT to start at 9am. So cleaned the room, took out the trash, folded clothes,arranged passport,did online-checkin, packed my laptop bag, packed my suitcase etc etc and finally had a bath. I spoke the airbnb person and arranged to just keep my bag and suitcase in the house until evening when I come back to leave for the Airport. 

Left for a final breakfast at Panera, had this <insert image> sandwich and a coffee. And then off to MIT. Spent most of the morning just coding but it was an informal thing and the last day at Boston, so we decided to go out to someplace at around 2pm. We left to visit the Aquarium <insert map>. The aquarium was insane! saw soo many different fishes, turtles, penguins, shellfishs, sea lions,walrus etc.. brilliant place! <insert images> 

We had lunch at the aquarium food court - A falafel and hummus wrap. Very filling. Then we proceeded to Downtown Crossing (a very happening place) and then I headed back to my place. Collected my things and then left for the airport. The route to airport includes - taking the Red Line till South Station and then catching the SL1 bus to the Logan Airport. Past the formalities in the airport. Bought a MIT shirt and a fridge magnet inside (just didnt find the time to enter MIT Co-Op to shop for memorabilia as it closes at 5pm). Had a not so worth it dinner inside the airport. Slept for most of the plane to Dubai and started writing the blog posts in Dubai Airport. 

The week ends. 

